# Exploratory-Forecast
Exploratory Data Analysis and Forecasting of Temperatures of Major Cities
Done By: Akshat Jain,  Suyash  Srivastava & Vasu Sood
Climate change refers to the change in the environmental conditions of the earth. It includes both global warming driven by human-induced emissions of greenhouse gases and the resulting large-scale shifts in weather patterns. The climatic change has become a global concern over the last few decades. During the past century, human activities have released large amounts of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Most of the gases come from burning fossil fuels to produce energy. Greenhouse gases are like a blanket around the Earth, trapping energy in the atmosphere and causing it to warm. This is called the greenhouse effect and it is natural and necessary to support life on earth. However, while greenhouse gases build-up, the climate changes and result in dangerous effects to human health and ecosystems. People have adapted to the stable climate we have enjoyed since the last ice age which ended several thousand years ago. A warmer climate can bring changes that can affect our water supplies, agriculture, power and transportation systems, the natural environment, and even our own health and safety. When temperature rises, many different changes can occur on Earth. For example, it can result in more floods, droughts, or intense rain, as well as more frequent and severe heat waves. Oceans and glaciers have also experienced some changes: oceans are warming and becoming more acidic, glaciers are melting, and sea levels are rising. As these changes frequently occur in future decades, they will likely present challenges to our society and environment. 
It is important that we understand how the climate is changing, so that we can prepare for the future. Studying the climate would also help us predict the future climatic conditions and thus enable us to adopt strict measures to slow down the rate of climate change.
In this project, we have taken the dataset of temperatures of different cities from 1995-2020 from University of Dayton (https://academic.udayton.edu/kissock/http/Weather/default.htm )and analysed it by using Python libraries such as NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, and Seaborn .We have also used MS Excel to forecast the expected trends of temperatures of different regions till 2050.
